# CS300
The problem presented for the projects was to design and implement a program that could load a list of courses from ABCU academy and organize/store them in an appropriate data structure for access from campus advisors. During this project I was asked to evaluate and determine which data structure would be most beneficial for this type of project and to evaluate its performance comparative to other data structure designs. 

The available data structures to be evaluated for this project were between a Vector, a Hash Table, and a Binary Tree design. When evaluating the project I had to think about what sort of data structure would make the most sense, and have the largest beneficial impact on the project. I first experimented with the vector data structure, being the simplest of the three. It was very easy to set up, but the downsides were apparant when scaling the data to a large file. It would be difficult to maintain good performance with a very large project, and it was not the best option for this scenario. I view the Hash Table in a similar manner, and almost like an in-between of the Vector and the Binary Tree design. It has the benefit of being simpler than the binary tree, but with better performance than the vector design. Finally when looking at the Binary Tree design, it made the most sense to me. This data structure was designed to have efficient searching functions, which is going to be the primary use of this application.

When I was developing the application for the Binary Tree project, I ran into some strange problems, and one that still persists. For some reason when the program opens the .txt file and I create the seperate Nodes and store them in a binary tree structure, the MATH201 file reads the name improperly and cannot be typed with a normal ascii character. I tried many different functions and methods to access and try to avoid this problem, but I could not find a solution before having to submit the assignment. Besides the interesting name for MATH201, any other problems I encountered were normally an error of my own, including trying to search through the tree backwards. While they were simple fixes, it was still a time consuming process and a learning experience I do not think I will forget for a long time. 

Thanks to this project I have really become much more comfortable with the C++ language, and I am starting to enjoy coding in it. I have also learned different techniques to try and implement when I am trying to challegne myself by learning and implementing a new concept, in this project the application of a Hash Table and Binary Tree were particularly difficult for me. I have also noticed I am now taking more care into what methods and functions I create, as having to trace back and force fixing small errors made me appreciate having the program segmented into logical steps that do not interfere with one another.
